
Behold, mortal, the origins of NetHack...

Jay Fenlason wrote the original Hack with help from Kenny Woodland,
Mike Thome, and Jon Payne.

Andries Brouwer did a major re-write, transforming Hack into a very different
game, and published (at least) three versions (1.0.1, 1.0.2, and 1.0.3) for
UNIX(tm) machines to the Usenet.

Don G. Kneller ported Hack 1.0.3 to Microsoft(tm) C and MS-DOS(tm), producing
PC HACK 1.01e, added support for DEC Rainbow graphics in version 1.03g, and
went on to produce at least four more versions (3.0, 3.2, 3.51, and 3.6).

R. Black ported PC HACK 3.51 to Lattice(tm) C and the Atari 520/1040ST,
producing ST Hack 1.03.

Mike Stephenson merged these various versions back together, incorporating
many of the added features, and produced NetHack version 1.4.  He then
coordinated a cast of thousands in enhancing and debugging NetHack 1.4 and
released NetHack versions 2.2 and 2.3.
 
Later, Mike coordinated a major rewrite of the game, heading a team which
included Ken Arromdee, Jean-Christophe Collet, Steve Creps, Eric Hendrickson,
Izchak Miller, Eric S. Raymond, John Rupley, Mike Threepoint, and Janet Walz,
to produce NetHack 3.0c.  The same group subsequently released ten patch-
level revisions and updates of 3.0.

NetHack 3.0 was ported to the Atari by Eric R. Smith, to OS/2 by Timo
Hakulinen, and to VMS by David Gentzel.  The three of them and Kevin Darcy
later joined the main development team to produce subsequent revisions of
3.0.

Olaf Seibert ported NetHack 2.3 and 3.0 to the Amiga.  Norm Meluch, Stephen
Spackman and Pierre Martineau designed overlay code for PC NetHack 3.0.
Johnny Lee ported NetHack 3.0 to the Macintosh.  Along with various other
Dungeoneers, they continued to enhance the PC, Macintosh, and Amiga ports
through the later revisions of 3.0.
 
Headed by Mike Stephenson and coordinated by Izchak Miller and Janet Walz,
the development team which now included Ken Arromdee, David Cohrs,
Jean-Christophe Collet, Kevin Darcy, Matt Day, Timo Hakulinen, Steve Linhart,
Dean Luick, Pat Rankin, Eric Raymond, and Eric Smith undertook a radical
revision of 3.0.  They re-structured the game's design, and re-wrote major
parts of the code.  They added multiple dungeons, a new display, special
individual character quests, a new endgame and many other new features, and
produced NetHack 3.1.

Ken Lorber, Gregg Wonderly and Greg Olson, with help from Richard Addison,
Mike Passaretti, and Olaf Seibert, developed NetHack 3.1 for the Amiga.

Norm Meluch and Kevin Smolkowski, with help from Carl Schelin, Stephen
Spackman, Steve VanDevender, and Paul Winner, ported NetHack 3.1 to the PC.

Jon W{tte, with help from Ross Brown, Mike Engber, David Hairston, Michael
Hamel, Jonathan Handler, Johnny Lee, Tim Lennan, Rob Menke, Andy Swanson, and
especially from Hao-yang Wang, developed NetHack 3.1 for the Macintosh.

Timo Hakulinen ported NetHack 3.1 to OS/2.  Eric Smith ported NetHack 3.1
to the Atari.  Pat Rankin, with help from Joshua Delahunty, is responsible
for the VMS version of NetHack 3.1.

Dean Luick, with help from David Cohrs, developed NetHack 3.1 for X11.

                           - - - - - - - - - -
 
From time to time, some depraved individual out there in netland sends a
particularly intriguing modification to help out with the game.  The Gods of
the Dungeon sometimes make note of the names of the worst of these miscreants
in this, the list of Dungeoneers:

    Richard Addison           Eric Hendrickson       Mike Passaretti
    Tom Almy                  Bruce Holloway         Pat Rankin
    Ken Arromdee              Richard P. Hughey      Eric S. Raymond
    Eric Backus               Ari Huttunen           Frederick Roeber
    John S. Bien              John Kallen            John Rupley
    Ralf Brown                Del Lamb               Carl Schelin
    Ross Brown                Greg Laskin            Olaf Seibert
    David Cohrs               Johnny Lee             Kevin Sitze
    Jean-Christophe Collet    Tim Lennan             Eric R. Smith
    Steve Creps               Merlyn LeRoy           Kevin Smolkowski
    Kevin Darcy               Steve Linhart          Michael Sokolov
    Matthew Day               Ken Lorber             Stephen Spackman
    Joshua Delahunty          Dean Luick             Andy Swanson
    Bill Dyer                 Benson I. Margulies    Kevin Sweet
    Mike Engber               Pierre Martineau       Scott R. Turner
    Jochen Erwied             Roland McGrath         Steve VanDevender
    Mike Gallop               Norm Meluch            Janet Walz   
    David Gentzel             Rob Menke              Hao-yang Wang
    Mark Gooderum             Deron Meranda          Jon W{tte
    David Hairston            Bruce Mewborne         Tom West
    Timo Hakulinen            Izchak Miller          Paul Winner
    Michael Hamel             Gil Neiger             Gregg Wonderly
    Jonathan Handler          Greg Olson
